README.md, before:

# evaluation-functional-js-3

Exercises to evaluate students about basic functional programming in JavaScript.

## Commands

### Installation

Please install dependencies first.

    npm install

### Tests & lint

To launch the tests.

    npm test

To lint sources.

    npm run lint

### Start

To start program.

    npm start

## Exercises

### Exercise 1

Implement the function `sortProduct(input)` in file **_src/exercise1.js_** where the input is an array of products with a property with the property dateAdded in UNIX timestamp (milliseconds) format.

The function should filter product before year 2000, sort by date and group by product.

You don't understand what you need to do ?

Don't stress tests are written in file **_test/exercise1.test.js_** to explain the behaviour of the function.

To implement the function, you should do in a functional way WITHOUT using Lodash or any another FP library.

But you cloud use the moment library to manipulate dates.

* :point_right: [`moment()`](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/parsing/unix-timestamp-milliseconds/)
* :point_right: [`year()`](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/get-set/year/)
* :point_right: [`month()`](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/get-set/month/)

All tests describe in file **_test/exercise1.test.js_** should pass with success, and it's forbidden to change this file.

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 1"

### Exercise 2

The function +yolo(input)+ in file **_src/exercise2.js_** has been implemented by an another developper and the test is present in **_test/exercise2.js_**, but he forgot to commit the input to pass the test ...

Could you guess the input "whereIsMyMind" please ? Becareful only this input should change.

The test should pass with success.

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 2"

### Exercise 3

Implement the function `meeteek(input)` in file **_src/exercise3.js_** where the input is an array of people.

The function should return .

You don't understand what you need to do ?

Don't stress tests are written in file **_test/exercise3.test.js_** to explain the behaviour of the function.

To implement the function, you should do in a functional with or without Lodash.

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 3"

### Exercise 4

Implement the function +countSequence(sequence, input)+ in file **_src/exercise4.js_** where sequence and input are strings, the output the number of sequence into the input.

You don't understand what you need to do ?

Don't stress tests are written in file **_test/exercise4.test.js_** and they should pass with success.

To implement the function, you should do in a RECURSIVE WAY.

Then the function should be able to work in a CURRY WAY too.

:point_right: [split](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/String/split) could help you.

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 4"

Commit message:

Review all exercises before evaluation
Fix README about exercise 1

Add more tests to describe exercise 1

Clarify exercise 3 into README

Fix tests for exercise 3

Clarify functions to help exercise 3

Add Lodash into package.json and clarify function to use into README

Clarify exercise 4 into README

README.md, after:

# evaluation-functional-js-3

Exercises to evaluate students about basic functional programming in JavaScript.

## Commands

### Installation

Please install dependencies first.

    npm install

### Tests & lint

To launch the tests.

    npm test

To lint sources.

    npm run lint

### Start

To start program.

    npm start

## Exercises

### Exercise 1

Implement the function `sortProduct(input)` in file **_src/exercise1.js_** where the input is an array of products with a property dateAdded in UNIX timestamp (milliseconds) format.

The function should filter product before year 2000, sort by date and group by product.

You don't understand what you need to do ?

Don't stress tests are written in file **_test/exercise1.test.js_** to explain the behaviour of the function.

To implement the function, you should do in a functional way WITHOUT using Lodash or any another FP library.

But you cloud use the moment library to manipulate dates.

:point_right: [`moment()`](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/parsing/unix-timestamp-milliseconds/)
:point_right: [`year()`](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/get-set/year/)
:point_right: [`month()`](https://momentjs.com/docs/#/get-set/month/)

All tests describe in file **_test/exercise1.test.js_** should pass with success, and it's forbidden to change this file.

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 1"

### Exercise 2

The function +yolo(input)+ in file **_src/exercise2.js_** has been implemented by an another developper and the test is present in **_test/exercise2.js_**, but he forgot to commit the input to pass the test ...

Could you guess the input "whereIsMyMind" please ? Becareful only this input should change.

The test should pass with success.

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 2"

### Exercise 3

Implement the function `meeteek(input)` in file **_src/exercise3.js_** where the input is an array of people.

The function should return an object about network relationship.

You don't understand what you need to do ?

Don't stress tests are written in file **_test/exercise3.test.js_** to explain the behaviour of the function.

To implement the function, you should do in a functional way.

You cloud use the Lodash library to help you.

:point_right: [`includes()`](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.5#includes)
:point_right: [`intersection()`](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.5#intersection)

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 3"

### Exercise 4

Implement the function +countSequence(sequence, input)+ in file **_src/exercise4.js_** where sequence and input are strings, the output the number of sequence into the input.

You don't understand what you need to do ?

Don't stress tests are written in file **_test/exercise4.test.js_** and they should pass with success.

Be careful the function should be able to work in a CURRY WAY too.

:point_right: [`split()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/String/split) could help you.

After finish this exercise, please commit all your files.

    git add .

    git commit -m "Exercise 4"
